# EmotionBasedMusicPlayer
We go through many emotions throughout the day and sometimes we just need a freind who can understand us, support us, tell us that the emotions we are feeling are normal. Many a times Music plays the role of our empathetic freind. Emosic is one such freind that we have for you and just like your real freinds Emosic can detect your emotions just by reading your face. This ability to detect your emotion is not something inherited in it as your real freind has but as the freinds do Emosic put all its efforts to do what it can in detecting your emotion and then fetch cool songs for you from the backend that we have deployed to help your freind. Fascinating?? Let's have a closure look on what we have to offer.
Scratching your head over how your new freind detect your emotions?? Let us help you in understanding how a Machine detect emotions...
How do you get to know that your freind is happy? Generally when we are happy our face is relaxed (or we can say that the tention between various points of our face is minimum), in some cases our incisors are visible i.e. our mouth is slightly open, our eyebrows are at their normal distance etc etc... These are the same things that a machine can use to know your emotion. 
Have you seen drawings in which we are given various dots and when we connect those dots we surprising see some paintings. Just like this AI marks various dots on our face with the help of the facial landmarks like position of the eyes, mouth, eyebrows. and then it calculate the distances between various dots, using this calculation along with the general facial contours AI guess what should be the emotion we are feeling.
Going back to our example, now we can think, how relaxed face, open mouth and distance between eyebrow can be used to detect that we are happy. Things are not this easy but anyways this was an overview how AI detects emotion. Let's go ahead with this small understanding of the black box algorithms of detecting emotions. 
Once your freind guess how you are feeling, and based on his guess, Emosic fetches the songs from the database using backend that we have deployed on heroku and voila it's how things work here.
